In the CCN a course we've been discussing the use of local usernames and passwords.
In other words the username and password information is stored on each router or switch individually
so as an example when I log on to this router rod or one there's no authentication but what we could
do is create a username on the rudder and then go into the line console and specify a log in and either
a line log in or specify a local log in.
So now when we log on to the router we are prompted to enter the username and the password that works
well when you have a small environment.
But as you scale it becomes a lot of work.
So as an example when I connect to write a two there's no username and password.
So what I need to do now is create a separate username and password on write it to and then I need to
remember to go into the line console and specify a log in local and I mustn't forget to do that on the
V T1 lines as well.
So logging back in I'm now prompted for my username and password on rata to but once again when I connect
to Router 3 There's no username and password and I have to specify that again.
Now that's not the only problem that we have to configure passwords locally on every device.
So you've got to remember to do all that configuration but what you've also got to remember to do is
to change your passwords on a regular basis.
To implement good security practices you should be changing your password on a regular basis.
That means that we have to go to every device in the network and change the password on each device
individually.
In this example I've only got five devices but if you've got a hundred or a thousand network devices
that's a lot of configuration that increases because you don't want your users sharing the same username
and password.
So if you've got another using your environment
you should set up that to use account on every router.
As an example on broader one I can log in as Mary but I can't do that on broad a T because I haven't
configured a username.
Mary on Robert T.
So the management of usernames and passwords becomes very difficult when you have a local usernames
and passwords configured on every device so it makes sense to centralize your usernames and passwords
on a central server.
So in this example we've got a user called admin but we could add Mary or David to this database and
then point every network device to the central AC US server which means that we don't have to configure
a local username and password on every device for every user that needs to access that device.
The server can also be leveraged once again for attitude out one ex authentication where you centralize
the username and password authentication of users accessing the network through a triple a server or
authentication authorization an accounting server.